hi everyone welcome to another WordPress
Wednesday today I want to walk you
through what is CSS so many of y'all are
total beginners that watch my channel
and sometimes you hear about CSS and
you're not really sure what it does or
how it actually affects your website so
here it is CSS actually means cascading
style sheet and what that means is it's
one file on your website typically one
main file on your website that allows
you to set the formatting and the layout
the look if you will of your website
right it basically depicts whether or
not your links on your website let me
slide this around for a second shrink
myself down here it's gonna say whether
or not your links are blue like this or
what size are what type of font and what
size font you're gonna be using on your
website it's gonna set that your H ones
are you know this size font which is
maybe a 24 size font and that this size
font here would just be a 12 it's gonna
do all that it's also gonna say how much
padding or space is in between each
paragraph it basically affects every bit
of your website so it's gonna say up
here that this blue color is is going to
be blue so the colors the fonts and kind
of the padding or the layout is what it
affects on your website the reason why
it's so important is because if you ever
wanted to change all of these blue links
to be maybe we want to change them out
to red you can just go into one file and
make that change in one particular line
and every single page on your whole
website this one file will cascade
through your whole website and make that
ripple effect take place instantaneously
versus old-school days we used to have
to code every single page by itself
right so if we wanted to change this
blue color link to be red we would
literally have to go into every single
page on our website and make that change
you could spend your lifetime making
these changes so a cascading style sheet
is super super super important to have
and whenever you're using WordPress you
naturally have one alright so if you go
to your dashboard area you go to your
appearance area and you're going to see
an editor button the very first screen
that you see
here I'm a shrink myself down a little
bit more even see this right here it
should say style.css that is your style
sheet and you can see all it's typically
a very long sheet you see all this fun
stuff in here that affects the look in
the field you see right here this is h1
so whenever you set your header tag on
your page it's telling it what size
fought to be and as you go down through
here you can see that the author is
coded basically every element on your
website and giving it some sort of
element to affect it whether it's
displaying in line whether it has margin
around it you can see as we scroll down
through here some other options this
tells you what what padding is gonna be
around it and the line height of it as
you scroll through here literally every
single styling is affected here here's
your post styling and what those look
like there's a color code of what color
the links are gonna be so all this fun
stuff in here is how the author of your
theme has set the look in the field to
be and if you ever wanted to make
changes to those things this is one area
that you could come to to make those
changes however you also want to
remember that whenever you go to update
your scene that this particular file
will more than likely be overridden
vector its original default styling so
if you ever wanted to have some sort of
customization happen in here what are
you gonna need total beginners might not
know this yet but if you've ever taken
any of my classes or watched in my other
videos you know you need what's called a
custom CSS box right a lot of authors
these days are putting that inside your
theme options area or your customized
area you might have a box that looks
something like this called custom CSS so
if you ever wanted to overwrite a
certain styling that your author has
done naturally a font color a padding
maybe you want to hide a whole section
of your website and you can't figure out
how to turn it off there's a way to do
that in your stylesheet by doing a
display:none that's a really cool little
stylesheet capability and you can just
do that by coming in here in your
stylesheet area and and adding that in
this particular box if you have a custom
CSS box will never be overwritten if you
ever have to do an update for your for
your theme which is really really
great this is kind of a cheating a great
way to cheat without having to build a
child theme so this is a wonderful thing
if your author has not allowed you to
have a custom CSS box there is a plug-in
for that that you can easily quickly
just plug in and all sudden you've got a
box now that you can tinker in and add
all your different code in there so this
month coming up in February I want you
to follow us on YouTube because every
single Wednesday I'm going to be dealing
with stylesheet stuff I'm gonna show you
some really great beginner stylesheet
codes that you can come in here and I
understand exactly what you're reading
all right every single one of these
things are different things that you can
affect your website with and I'm gonna
show you how to do that I already have a
beginner tips right here I'm going to
give you the link inside the description
box below
so we already have something that you
can easily and quickly read through to
see how to change your font color sizes
remove a border around images change a
background color all sorts of fun things
here that you can read and see how to do
so I'm gonna give you that link but
coming up this month of February and for
the next four videos I'm gonna be giving
you CSS tips I hope that helps be sure
to subscribe to our channel I'll put the
link right here so that you can catch a
video every single Wednesday have a
great day y'all bye bye